Command-line arguments: [options] [input file(s)]

The system writes output files with the same name as the input file, except
with '.png' or '.svg' extension. (This will replace an existing '.summary'
extension if present, otherwise will be appended.)

Behaviour differs depending on how many input files there are. A single file
generates a pie chart. Multiple files are displayed as time points, in the
order specified. For this to work, the file names must contain dates in 
.YYYY-MM-DD., .YYYY-MM. or .YYYY. format. Unless processing a single file,\
you will get an error if a file date can't be determined.

Input options
-------------

-stdin
  Read data from stdin instead of files. (Implies -stdout.)

--
  Indicate that this is the end of the options section.

  This is required if the first input file name starts with -.

@{file}
  Read arguments from a file instead of the command line. You can combine
  this usage with command-line options. Using a file is highly recommended if
  you need to specify any of the complex options with regular expressions in.

  When arguments are specified in a file, one single argument must be specified
  per line of the file. For example, "-format tomcat" must be written on two
  lines. You can include # at the start of a line for comments; blank lines
  are OK.

Output options
--------------

-size {width} {height}
  Specifies output file size in pixels. The default is 800 x 600.

-title {title}
  Specifies title for graph. (On the command line, use quotes as normal to
  include multiple words.) Default is the file prefix.

-background {colour}
  Specifies image background colour in one of two formats:
  #rrggbb (hexadecimal red, green, and blue; upper or lower case)
  hhh/sss/lll (hue in degrees, saturation and lightness in range 0-255, decimal)
  Default is #ffffff.

-foreground {colour}
  Specifies colour to use for title and footnotes. Default is #000000.

-group {name} {colour} {text colour}
  Specifies colours for a specific group. The text colour refers to the colour
  of text which is displayed on top of the group background.

  By default, group colours are selected from a standard pool, using similar
  colours where the first word of the group name is the same.

-font {name}
  Font to use for graph labels. Default is arbitrary sans-serif.

-labelsize {pixels}
  Size (in pixels) of font to use for labels.

-footnotesize {pixels}
  Size (in pixels) of font to use for footnotes.

-titlesize {pixels}
  Size (in pixels) of font to use for title.

-labels {start|end|both|none}
  Applies only to trend graphs. Controls which end(s) group labels appear on.
  Default is both.

-format {svg|png|csv}
  By default, the output file is saved in PNG format. You can also specify
  SVG format, or a CSV table of all the data. Use multiple -format parameters
  if you want more than one format.

-csv {percentage|count}
  Specifies whether the CSV file will include percentages or counts. The default
  is percentages. If you specify this command, you don't need to include
  -format csv.

-category {category}
  If specified, the given category will be graphed. Otherwise, the total count
  value will be graphed.

-prefix {name}
  If specified, this will be used as the first part of the output filename;
  if you set the prefix to frog, then the output filename will be frog.png
  or frog.svg. If not specified, the default is the name of the *last* input
  file, with .summary removed.

-stdout
  Write output to standard output instead of to a file. This does not need
  to be specified if you specify -stdin.

-folder {folder}
  Place output file in the specified folder instead of in the same folder as
  the last input file.

-overwrite
  Overwrite existing output files. (Without specifying this option, if the
  system would otherwise overwrite an existing file, it exits with an error.)

Trend graph display
-------------------

Ordering:

Groups are arranged in the order of the first summary file. Other groups are
added in the order of the first summary file where they are encountered. (If
the summary files are in radically different order, results will be arbitrary.)

To specify a precise order, add lines to the first summary file for all groups
(with zero counts).

Automatic colouring:

The system assigns colours from a predefined list.

If several groups have similar text, they will be assigned similar colours.

- Determine 'similar text' using the portion of the group name up to:
  - any punctuation symbol
  - any digit

- Arrange the groups into order. If the group names contain a number, arrange
  in numerical order. If there is no number, arrange in the order encountered.
  Groups with no number count 'lower' than any group with a number.

- The last group in this order is assigned a saturated colour. Groups before
  this are assigned progressively less saturated colours. Less important groups
  also shift in brightness (becoming darker, if the colour is a bright one, or
  lighter if it is a dark one).

You can manually assign colours; if you only assign a colour to one group in
a set of similarly-named groups, that colour will be taken as the brightest
colour mentioned.

Footnotes:

When a group is not labelled (because it isn't at the end or start of the
graph, wherever you're drawing labels) a footnote number is drawn in the graph
and that footnote is referenced under the graph with the group name.

Dates:

The system always displays the last date, then will display the first date if
it fits. After that, other dates are displayed as they can be fitted in without
overlapping each other.

Labels:

End and start labels are displayed, where possible, in proportion to the size
of the graph bars; a minimum height limit (so the text fits in) applies.

Edge cases:

If there is not enough space or font size is set too large, text will overlap.
The system will not wrap individual pieces of text.

Pie chart display
-----------------

Ordering:

Groups are arranged in the same order as in the summary file. The first group
starts at twelve o'clock on the pie chart, and runs clockwise.

Automatic colouring:

(As for trend chart.)

Legend:

Pie charts always include a legend. For each group, this includes a colour box,
the group name, and the percentage. If (after taking into account the space
required for the title) the available space for the graph is wider than it is
high (default), then the legend is shown at the right. Otherwise it is shown
below the graph.

Labels:

The system also places group-name labels directly onto the pie chart where
there is enough room (i.e. on big slices only).